# v0.1.0 - Jan 01, 2024

During the last few years, I have been experiencing the immense joy of developing reservoir simulation models in Python where I can seamlessly investigate the beautiful combination of scientific computing with machine learning (actually scientific machine learning). Combining reservoir engineering and data science in the Python ecosystem is phenomenal and fun. I am indeed extremely lucky to be able to do that. Today, I am happy to finally share my passion in the form of a new library called ReservoirFlow. This is the first version where _ReservoirFlow_ was released to the world, a Petroleum Reservoir Simulation Library in Python.

After working for several years on this project and sharing my progress on LinkedIn, publishing this library is indeed a unique moment for me. This point was already delayed several times due to the huge technical and scientific challenges associated with reservoir simulation especially when combined with deep learning. Nevertheless, this is still a uniquely interesting time since scientific machine learning is still a new emerging field that requires more practical applications which might be offered by this tool. I am very excited about the upcoming opportunities that will be opened by this library. I am looking forward to combining the world of scientific computing with deep learning to further develop more practical solutions.

There are many goals for this library, but one of the main goals is to provide open-source, accessible, and reproducing research that can benefit students at all levels from bachelor to PhD levels from different backgrounds, especially from Applied Mathematics and physics (i.e. Mathematical Physics) and Petroleum Engineering (i.e. Reservoir Engineering).

The research on the topic of reservoir simulation is extremely rich but has been missing a tool where important papers are implemented in a standard and clean way that can be understood by others. We hope that we can provide such material in this platform to motivate students and researchers to use this tool in their research and also professors and academics in their lectures. Furthermore, we highly appreciate your support, especially by giving proper credit to this work using the following citation:

_ReservoirFlow: a Petroleum Reservoir Simulation Library in Python_, Zakariya Abugrin (2024)

Reservoir simulation books are very challenging to understand since they combine a wide range of topics from applied mathematics, to programming and engineering. In addition, most of these books lack hands-on coding examples. Perhaps this is the reason why there are not many open-source tools for reservoir simulation. As a result, there is a huge gap between reservoir simulation books and how things actually work when it comes to implementing these concepts.

Reservoir simulation itself is indeed an _ART_ that sometimes seems to be impossible to master. Therefore, alongside this library, I decided to write a book to explain the topic of reservoir simulation with many details supported by code examples from _ReservoirFlow_. However, this project has to be postponed until an acceptable version of _ReservoirFlow_ is reached.  

<div align="right">written by Zakariya Abugrin, 2023 Nürnberg, Germany</div>

## Contributors

- Zakariya Abugrin (Author).

```{include} /_static/comments_section.md
```